CMPE349
Precision Landing System Project
MLS Ground Receiver
1000 Hilltop Cir
Catonsville, MD 21250

DOC #:
DATE:
TO:
FROM:
SUBJECT:

1

TSR02
March 10, 2017
Dr. LaBerge
Group M
MGR Original Specs

Introduction

The Microwave Landing System Ground-Based Receiver (MGR) is responsible for gathering and processing
data from digital signals received from the ACME front-end and to be passed on to the Executive Monitor.
For the smooth transfer of both the preprocessed and processed data, several specifications are required to
be met. This document highlights and elaborates on those requirements.

2

XMON Message Format

The signals that the MGR provides to the executive monitor are given in section 2.2 of DO-177, and the
format for the data words for input to the executive monitor is given in section 2.3-5.3 of FAA-E-2721/12.
The MGR shall provide at least one of the following angle output signals to the executive monitor: visual,
electrical guidance output B, electrical guidance output A, and basic electrical output. The accuracy of
the guidance provided by the MGR shall be in terms of path following error (PFE) and control monitor
noise (CMN), which are explained in detail in Appendix E of DO-177. The guidance provided by the MGR
shall not contain a PFE or, with a 95% probability, a CMN that exceeds the tolerances listed in table 2-1
of DO-177.
The MLS Ground receiver shall provide the elevation angle data as well as any warning flags determined
by signal degradation due to interference to the executive monitor in the following formats (described in
sections 2.3-5.3 of FAA-E2721/12).
1. Function preamble
2. Morse code identification
3. Basic Data word
4. Auxiliary Data word

1

3

Environmental Factors

3.1

Category II

The International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) classifies precision landing system approaches based
on their decision height, minimum runway visual range and minimum guidance altitude. The categories
are named Category I through III, with the dependecy on the system increasing and the error window
decreasing as the name increments. A Category II landing system is required for this system.

3.2

4

Warning and Error Communication to the Executive Monitor

If for any reason the MGR is not able to send the required data to the executive monitor, a proper warning
flag shall be raised to the executive monitor informing the executive monitor of the error. Specifics on for
what reasons and within what time period pilots should be informed of warnings relevant to the MGR
are specified in sections 2.2.2.1.2 - 2.2.2.1.4 of RTCA DO-177. In order for the executive monitor to issue
these warnings to the pilot in the required time period, the MGR shall meet the additional requirements
outlined in this section. The intention of these warnings is to give the executive monitor as much detail as
possible as quickly as possible about errors, so that it may interpret this information and decide when to
inform the pilot.

4.1

Distinguishability

1. At the minimum, separate warning flags shall be raised to distinguish hardware failure, signal loss, the
varying degrees of signal degradation explained in point 2 of section 4.3, and the signal degradation
described in point 3 of section 4.3.
2. A separate warning flag should be raised for each condition listed in this section in order to communicate as much information as possible to make troubleshooting easier.

4.2

Hardware Failure

1. If the MGR stops receiving a signal altogether from the ACME front-end, a hardware warning flag
shall be raised to the executive monitor within [100µs].
2. If the ACME front-end informs the MGR of a hardware error, the warning flag shall be propagated
to the executive monitor within [100µs].
3. If some part of the MGR fails, and the MGR is successfully able to catch the failure, the MGR should
raise a hardware warning flag to the executive monitor within [100µs].
4. The origin of the hardware error should be communicated to the executive monitor.

2

4.3

Signal Loss/Degradation

1. If a signal which is not carrying positional data is received from the ACME front-end for the duration
of [1] signal frame, a signal loss warning flag shall be raised to the executive monitor within [100µs]
until a signal frame with valid positional data is received.
2. The MGR shall communicate to the executive monitor, and distinguish between, when 55%, 75%, or
100% of the OCI signal exceeds the primary signal by 1dB or more for each signal frame until a
signal frame with a valid OCI signal is received.
3. If an alternate signal exceeds the primary signal by 1dB, a signal degradation warning flag shall be
raised for each signal frame until a signal frame with valid a alternate signal is received.

4.4

Warning Flag Lowering

1. A warning flag shall be lowered only when the condition causing the flag stops.
2. The warning flag shall be lowered within [100µs] of when the condition causing the flag stops.

5

EMC Compliance

The MGR is a life-critical system. In order to avoid failure or malfunction the MGR shall operate normally in the presence of electromagnetic interference (EMI). The ability of a device to withstand EMI is
called electromagnetic compatibility (EMC). The EMC of a device is determined by its ability to filter and
shield. A filter removes unwanted frequencies in order to enhance desirable signals. Shielding is a metal
or conductive surface that is placed on the device that acts as a barrier to electromagnetic fields. There
are national and international standards that electronic appliances must comply with. In the USA standards are published by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in the Electronic Code of Federal
Regulations (Title 47 Telecommunication). Furthermore the Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics
(RTCA) and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) place additional requirements on avionics electronics. RTCA DO-160, Environmental Conditions and Test Procedures for Airborne Equipment, requires
that aircraft hardware is tested to verify and validate EMC. FAA report DOT/FAA/CT 86/40, Aircraft
electromagnetic compatibility, is a guideline document that deals with EMC for commercial aviation. In
order to meet the requirements placed on a life-critical system, the GBR must comply with the guidelines
presented in DOT/FAA/CT 86/40.

5.1

Verification and Validation

The MGR equipment shall undergo full-compliance EMC testing at a certified supplier. Conducted testing
and Radiated testing shall occur and will involve:
• Radiated emissions tests
• Conducted emissions tests
3

• Radiated immunity tests
• Conducted immunity tests
• Electrostatic discharge tests
• Fast transient/burst tests
• Surge/Voltage Spike tests
• Magnetic Effect tests
• Power Input tests
• Audio Frequency Conducted Susceptibility tests
• Induced Signal Susceptibility tests
• Radio frequency susceptibility tests

5.2

Certification

In order to ensure prompt approval by regulatory authorities EMC certification objectives will be developed
by a system qualification engineering team. Throughout the design of the MGR equipment audits shall
take place to ensure compliance with the EMC certification objectives.

4

